Good morning Hank it’s Tuesday
So I love visual art;
I think it is so good and helpful
to have stuff on your walls
that connects you to beauty and wonder
and awe, but one thing about art
is that it is often very expensive,
and another thing about art is that
the art world can be, kind of, uh,
gross;
You know,, headlines like
Paul Allen’s art collection to be auctioned
for a billion Dollars does not
make one feel as if art is for
normal people but it is I promise it is.
So first off, art does not have to be expensive.
Like one of my favorite artworks in our home
is this print by Nathaniel Russell
demanding snake poems now,
I love it because it’s beautiful
and also because posters tend to
make political statements or encourage
consumption habits,
and this poster just wants snake poetry,
And I like to imagine rallies
for snake poetry where people are like
What do we want?
Snake Poems!
When do we want them?
Hisssssss
But anyway, Russell’s prints are available
on his web site for $40,
and there are similarly talented artists
all over the world who have work available;
many even take commissions
via instagram or Twitter.
And if you want to get really inexpensive art,
you can go to like thrift stores and garage sales
and often find unique works there,
and you can always make a good
thrift store painting great by adding
your own star wars,
like Dave of daveruinsart.com does–
by the way his prints are $20.
Also, you might think art auctions
are only for the rich people,
but there are art auctions on eBay
all the time, and also Artsy.net,
where for example right now there
is one fundraiser auction with
an artwork by Michelle Grabner,
one of my favorite artists,
for $300, which is a lot of money,
but also if you have it for 50 years
it’s less than 2 cents a day.
Now I know what you’re thinking,
John, you just turned 45.
You’re not gonna look at anything every
Day for the next 50 years.
Thank you. Thank you for bringing
that energy into the video.
Back to art!
For me Artsy is kind of like Zillow
for art; it’s a great place just to like, scroll
through and and what you like
And what things cost
and what galleries or artists
you might want to follow.
Now there are two big auction houses ar
Sotheby’s and Christie’s, and they make
almost all of their money selling, like,
Rolexes and Warhols to the world’s
richest people, but anybody can
visit their websites.
And I like to look at them, partly
so that I can think to myself,
“Wow, someone is really going to spend
$100,000,000 on this painting by
Claude Monet and then store in a
windowless storage facility
wealth is a hell of a drug.”
But also, not everything is Monet-expensive.
Like, one of my favorite impressionist painters,
Eugene Boudin, who was one of
Monet’s teachers, and whose works
on paper sometimes sell for like a couple
thousand dollars,
which is a ton of money obviously
but it’s 1/100,000th the cost of a Monet.
Plus, it’s just fun to look at the art
and if you zoom in on the paintings
and make them full resolution,
it costs Sotheby’s and Christie’s a
little bit of hosting money,
which they pass on to the people
who buy stuff, so… you know …
is like a very indirect tax on the
world’s richest people, the rich.
Okay, and then of course,
there are art galleries and local art centers
and art schools, where works are often for sale.
Also there are art fairs, where you can see
A curated selection of lots of art.
Like, this weekend in Indianapolis is Butter,
an annual art fair featuring Black artists
from Indianapolis and around the world;
There are also DJ’s and artist workshops
And lots of other stuff.
It is overwhelmingly the coolest thing
that happens in Indianapolis and I’m not just
Saying that because Sarah is part of the
curatorial team.
So, if you live in Indianapolis, there’s Butter;
but wherever you live,
there is so much cool art!
For me, the art that means the most to me
Is the stuff that I connect to personally.
Maybe that’s because I see a painting
that looks the way OCD feels to me.
Or maybe it’s art made by someone I love.
Like my favorite work of art in our home
is this painting that my mom made
of the lazy boy where I wrote
Looking for Alaska.
It brings me such joy and solace–
and I hope that you’ve got art
that does the same for you.
Hank, I’ll see you on Friday.